auto-docs: Update @redpanda-data/docs-extensions-and-macros (#1684)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/vpc-peering-aws.mdx

---
title: Create a VPC Peering Connection to an AWS BYOC Cluster
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Create a VPC Peering Connection to an AWS BYOC Cluster | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Use the Redpanda UI and AWS CLI to create a VPC peering connection for a BYOC cluster."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/create-byoc-cluster-gcp/" />
</head><br />

> This topic describes how to connect the Redpanda network to an existing VPC, a requirement to start send data to Redpanda. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start sending data to the Redpanda cluster, you must configure the VPC network connection by connecting your Redpanda VPC to your existing AWS VPC.
```

### Prerequisites

* An AWS account 

> * A running BYOC cluster in AWS. If you don't have one ready, follow [this tutorial](create-byoc-cluster-aws.mdx) first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A running BYOC cluster in AWS. See [Create a BYOC Cluster on AWS](create-byoc-cluster-aws.mdx).
```

> * Your Redpanda cluster and VPC must be the same region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your Redpanda cluster and VPC must be in the same region.
```

## Create a peering connection 

1. In the AWS management console or the CLI, create a new peering connection between your AWS VPC and your Redpanda network using the following: 

>     * VPC Requester: Your Redpanda VPC. This will look something like `network-ch2c2ntioepec6ilaoog`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * VPC Requester: Your Redpanda VPC. This looks something like `network-ch2c2ntioepec6ilaoog`. 
```

    * VPC Accepter: Your existing AWS VPC ID.

    

2. After the VPC peering connection is created, make note of your peering connection ID. It will have a `pcx-` prefix.

## Create routes from Redpanda to AWS VPC

The following command routes traffic from Redpanda to AWS by finding the route tables for each associated subnet and creating a route: 

```

> aws ec2 describe-route-tables --filter "Name=tag:Name,Values=network-[REDPANDA CLUSTER ID]" "Name=tag:purpose,Values=private" | jq -r '.RouteTables[].RouteTableId' | \ 
> while read -r route_table_id; do \ 
> aws ec2 create-route --route-table-id $route_table_id --destination-cidr-block [YOUR AWS VPC’s CIDR BLOCK] --vpc-peering-connection-id [YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID]; \ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aws ec2 describe-route-tables --filter "Name=tag:Name,Values=network-<redpanda-cluster-id>" "Name=tag:purpose,Values=private" | jq -r '.RouteTables[].RouteTableId' | \ 
while read -r route_table_id; do \ 
aws ec2 create-route --route-table-id $route_table_id --destination-cidr-block <your-aws-vpc-cidr-block> --vpc-peering-connection-id <your-peering-connection-id>; \ 
```

> aws ec2 describe-route-tables --filter "Name=tag:Name,Values=network-[REDPANDA CLUSTER ID]" "Name=tag:purpose,Values=private" | jq -r '.RouteTables[].RouteTableId' | \ 
> while read -r route_table_id; do \ 
> aws ec2 create-route --route-table-id $route_table_id --destination-cidr-block [YOUR AWS VPC’s CIDR BLOCK] --vpc-peering-connection-id [YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID]; \ 
> done;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
aws ec2 describe-route-tables --filter "Name=tag:Name,Values=network-<REDPANDA CLUSTER ID>" "Name=tag:purpose,Values=private" | jq -r '.RouteTables[].RouteTableId' | \ 
while read -r route_table_id; do \ 
aws ec2 create-route --route-table-id $route_table_id --destination-cidr-block <YOUR AWS VPC’s CIDR BLOCK> --vpc-peering-connection-id <YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID>; \ 
done;
```

```

> The required values are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the following placeholder values:
```

> * Redpanda cluster ID: in the **Overview** page of your cluster. 
> * AWS CIDR block: in the AWS UI **Details** for your VPC. 
> * Peering connection ID: the ID of the peering connection noted in step one.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Redpanda cluster ID: This is listed in the **Overview** page of your cluster. 
* AWS CIDR block: This is listed in the AWS UI **Details** for your VPC. 
* Peering connection ID: This is the ID of the peering connection noted in step one.  
```

> ## Create routes from AWS to redpanda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create routes from AWS to Redpanda
```

Next, you will perform a similar process to the above. This time, you will have to route your AWS
subnet(s) to your Redpanda CIDR. This is the base command: 

```

> aws ec2 --region [YOUR REGION HERE] create-route \
>   --route-table-id [YOUR AWS ROUTE TABLE ID HERE] \
>   --destination-cidr-block [YOUR REDPANDA CIDR RANGE] \
>   --vpc-peering-connection-id [YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID HERE]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
aws ec2 --region <YOUR REGION> create-route \
  --route-table-id <YOUR AWS ROUTE TABLE ID> \
  --destination-cidr-block <YOUR REDPANDA CIDR RANGE> \
  --vpc-peering-connection-id <YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID>
```

> aws ec2 --region [YOUR REGION HERE] create-route \
>   --route-table-id [YOUR AWS ROUTE TABLE ID HERE] \
>   --destination-cidr-block [YOUR REDPANDA CIDR RANGE] \
>   --vpc-peering-connection-id [YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID HERE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aws ec2 --region <region> create-route \
  --route-table-id <aws-route-table-id> \
  --destination-cidr-block <redpanda-cidr-range> \
  --vpc-peering-connection-id [YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID HERE]
```

```

Your VPC may have multiple subnets, which may have multiple route table associations. Add the route to all the subnets.

## Test your connection 

> You can test your connection in one of two ways: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to test your connection: 
```

> * Return to your cluster overview and follow the directions in the **How to connect** panel. 
> * Use AWS’s [Reachability Analyzer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/reachability/what-is-reachability-analyzer.html). Choose your VM instance and a Redpanda instance as the source  and destination, and test the connection between them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Return to your cluster overview, and follow the directions in the **How to connect** panel. 
* Use the AWS [Reachability Analyzer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/reachability/what-is-reachability-analyzer.html). Select your VM instance and a Redpanda instance as the source  and destination, and test the connection between them. 
```

---

> title: VPC peering an AWS BYOC cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Create a VPC peering connection to an AWS BYOC cluster
```

---

<head>

>     <meta name="title" content="VPC Peering with an AWS BYOC Cluster | Redpanda Docs"/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <meta name="title" content="Create a VPC Peering Connection to an AWS BYOC Cluster | Redpanda Docs"/>
```

>     <meta name="description" content="Use the Redpanda UI and AWS CLI to complete VPC peering on for a BYOC cluster."/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <meta name="description" content="Use the Redpanda UI and AWS CLI to create a VPC peering connection for a BYOC cluster."/>
```

    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/create-byoc-cluster-gcp/" />
</head><br />

> This documentation covers peering your Redpanda network to your existing VPC. This is required to start sending data to Redpanda. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to connect the Redpanda network to an existing VPC, a requirement to start send data to Redpanda. 
```

> ### Prerequisites: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

* An AWS account 
* A running BYOC cluster in AWS. If you don't have this ready, follow [this tutorial](create-byoc-cluster-aws.mdx) first.

> * Make sure that your Redpanda cluster and your VPC are in the same region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Your Redpanda cluster and VPC must be the same region.
```

## Create a peering connection 

> 1. In the AWS management console or the CLI, create a new peering connection with the following: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the AWS management console or the CLI, create a new peering connection between your AWS VPC and your Redpanda network using the following: 
```

    * VPC Requester: Your Redpanda VPC. This will look something like `network-ch2c2ntioepec6ilaoog`. 
    * VPC Accepter: Your existing AWS VPC ID.

>     What this will do is create the initial peering connection between your AWS VPC and your Redpanda network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    
```

> 2. Once created, note your peering connection ID. It will have a pcx- prefix.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. After the VPC peering connection is created, make note of your peering connection ID. It will have a `pcx-` prefix.
```

## Create routes from Redpanda to AWS VPC

> This command will route traffic from Redpanda to AWS by finding the route tables for each associated subnet and creating a route: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following command routes traffic from Redpanda to AWS by finding the route tables for each associated subnet and creating a route: 
```

```
aws ec2 describe-route-tables --filter "Name=tag:Name,Values=network-[REDPANDA CLUSTER ID]" "Name=tag:purpose,Values=private" | jq -r '.RouteTables[].RouteTableId' | \ 
while read -r route_table_id; do \ 
aws ec2 create-route --route-table-id $route_table_id --destination-cidr-block [YOUR AWS VPC’s CIDR BLOCK] --vpc-peering-connection-id [YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID]; \ 
done;
```

> The necessary values can be found as follows: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The required values are:
```

> * Redpanda cluster ID: in the Overview page of your cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Redpanda cluster ID: in the **Overview** page of your cluster. 
```

> * AWS CIDR block: in the AWS UI in the Details of your VPC. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* AWS CIDR block: in the AWS UI **Details** for your VPC. 
```

* Peering connection ID: the ID of the peering connection noted in step one.  

## Create routes from AWS to redpanda

> Next, you will perform a similar process to the above. This time, you will have to route your AWS
> subnet(s) to your Redpanda CIDR. This is the base command: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you must route your AWS
subnet(s) to your Redpanda CIDR. The base command: 
```

```
aws ec2 --region [YOUR REGION HERE] create-route \
  --route-table-id [YOUR AWS ROUTE TABLE ID HERE] \
  --destination-cidr-block [YOUR REDPANDA CIDR RANGE] \
  --vpc-peering-connection-id [YOUR PEERING CONNECTION ID HERE]
```

> Your VPC may have multiple subnets, which may have multiple route table associations. You'll want to 
> add the route to all the subnets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your VPC may have multiple subnets, which may have multiple route table associations. Add the route to all the subnets.
```

## Test your connection 

You can test your connection in one of two ways: 

> * Return to your cluster overview and follow the directions in our **How to connect** panel. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Return to your cluster overview and follow the directions in the **How to connect** panel. 
```

> * Use AWS’s [Reachability Analyzer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/reachability/what-is-reachability-analyzer.html). Choose your VM instance and a Redpanda instance as the source and destination, and test the connection between them. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use AWS’s [Reachability Analyzer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/reachability/what-is-reachability-analyzer.html). Choose your VM instance and a Redpanda instance as the source  and destination, and test the connection between them. 
```
